People often think, you know, how do I
get an organization to head in a certain
direction?
And it's not by putting plaques up on
the wall with mottos,
who you hire, who you fire, who you
promote. Then the younger people are
going to look around and say, "Oh, that
person who took a risk, oh, I want to
follow them." And I think that in many
ways is the best way to model things.
>> This week I'm speaking to Jon Gray, the
president and chief operating officer of
the private equity [music] giant
Blackstone.
A so-called lifer, he joined the company
in 1992 [music] at just 22 years old.
Under the mentorship of chairman and
chief executive Steve Schwarzman, Gray
began on the real estate side of the
business, helping it become the largest
private equity [music] real estate
investor in the world. And since
assuming his current role in 2018,
Blackstone says its assets have nearly
tripled to over 1.3 trillion dollars.
>> [music]
>> So at a time of global upheaval, I was
keen to catch up with Gray about how he
leads through crisis while maintaining
trust, the challenges facing
Blackstone's flagship private credit
fund, how he retains talent, and what
that tells us about his own sense of
loyalty.
Jon Gray, thank you so much for joining
us. It's great to be with you, Francine.
You're known in as the Hilton deal guy,
right? 20 years ago you take this
massive bet on Hilton.
You pay 26 billion for it at Blackstone
with 20 billion debt. What were you
thinking?
I wasn't as wise back then. I guess at
the time, if you go back,
this is right before the financial
crisis, and I was running our real
estate business, and what we were
looking for was how could we buy
great real estate or operating
businesses at reasonable prices?
And there was so much debt in the market
fueling private real estate values that
we found we could buy the public
companies at better prices.
So, we ended up paying a big premium 30
plus percent over where the company was
trading.
And we committed in July of '07, we
closed in late October.
By early '08, things are going badly.
Uh the financial crisis really picks up
and the company has a 20% decline in
revenue and a 40% decline in cash flow
and we put a lot of debt on it.
And I would say at that moment it did
feel like it was career shortening uh
and that I shouldn't be sitting here
today. Did you think, "What have I
done?" Or did you think, "We'll get
through it?"
>> I think there was part of me that was
what have I done, but there was also
part of me that was this is a great
business. We still thought that travel
was a long-term growth business. And
that the core of the company, the
branded hotel business where you manage
and franchise hotels, Hilton, Hilton
Garden Inn, Hampton, Waldorf, that that
business could grow a lot beyond the
United States and that we just had to
weather this storm.
And so, we ended up putting in an extra
$800 million
at the bottom. By the way, we wrote off
>> a storm. It was quite a storm. We wrote
down the investment by 71%.
So, the largest investment in our firm's
history we wrote down by 71%.
You had to go to meetings with investors
and I'd had to say to them, "Hey, I know
we've done this,
but it's unrealized. We're going to get
through this."
And there was obviously rightfully a lot
of concern. Ultimately, the sun came
back out. The business grew.
We took the company public and we made
$14 billion.
And
by all accounts that should not have
happened. And so, the question becomes
what do you learn? One is the importance
of staying calm. So, I always say to my
kids and now I say to everyone at
Blackstone, stay calm, stay positive,
never give up. And I think that was
really an important in a moment like
this. And by the way,
at all different times we've seen this
in COVID, we've seen it when markets
react to liberation day, having the
sense of equanimity is really important
because you have to be clear thinking.
Because sometimes you may have made a
really bad decision. In the case of
Hilton,
we actually had invested in a great
company. Our timing was terrible.
But if we had the staying power to get
to the other side, we thought we could
make it. So, stay calm. The second thing
as an investor, which has really
informed how I think about deploying
capital, is
so often in my training,
I'd focus on whether I pay 98 or 100 for
something, what the footnote on page 52
says in the investment memo. But it's
really that first paragraph. You know,
what what is the basis? How good of a
business is it? The biggest thing on the
investing side is it led to this idea of
what are the best neighborhoods to
invest in? You know, there's a shortage
of global housing or
you know, consumers are moving to buying
things from from stores to online, so
logistics will do well. More recently,
the importance of data centers and and
fabs and energy and and thinking about
investing in not necessarily
just the individual, we're going to
price everything, but we've got a better
chance of success if we pick better
neighborhoods, better management teams.
And in this case, we felt great about
the business and the neighborhood. But
the timing is everything. So, you can
see how the world evolves,
but you don't know whether it's 5 years
or 10 years. Yeah, I'd say
timing is very important because it can
impact your returns. I think I would say
it slightly differently. I'd say the
long-term trends. If we had bought a
different kind of business and gone
through this crisis, we may have lost
it. In this case, the underlying
business and industry were so good that
we were able to ride through it, and
that was the key learning.
>> I mean, it's very easy to say stay calm.
In those moments, I mean, can you learn
to stay calm or focused? Or is it so is
it temperament you're born with? I don't
know. I think you can learn. I think the
more
I I feel like in my day job every day I
get pieces of bad news, right? Cuz it
invariably comes up, and so you have to
you begin to absorb that in a better way
when you're accustomed to it. And so
part of it may be
your nature, your fundamental optimism,
but part of it is having experience and
understanding that these crises there is
an other side, and you have to make
decisions keeping that in mind. You're
lifer at Blackstone.
>> Lifer, 34 years plus.
>> 34 years. Is that what you want from
your staff as well, loyalty?
Well, I if they love what they're doing
and the people they're doing it with, um
then yes. I I think the culture that
Steve Schwarzman has really created a
place where people are striving for
excellence, trying very hard to deliver
for our underlying clients, where people
treat each other well,
and ultimately, if you do a great job,
you get rewarded. Your hope is that you
can attract the best and the brightest,
and that they're going to want to stay
and grow. And I'm very blessed to work
with people who've been at at the firm
for decades. At the same time, I think
what's important at a firm is that it
grows, because one of the problems with
some of smaller firms is there's not a
space, you know, that smaller tree can't
get sunlight. And so, what's great about
this firm is this push to grow gives
young people a chance to say, "Even
though I'm joining a bigger firm today,
I still have a lot of opportunity." How
do you think about retaining talent? Do
you First of all, do you see it as a
personal mission?
And actually, what do people want? I
think it's a personal mission, for sure.
I I think what people want is the
opportunity to grow,
to learn, to have responsibility,
to be at a place they're valued,
obviously to have professional
advancement, and also financial rewards.
And I do think they care about where
they work and what the culture is like.
Yes, money matters, but if you genuinely
like the people you work with, if you
feel a sense of mission, you're proud of
the place you work,
and and I would say if there's an
entrepreneurial flair to the place, then
I think you're going to stay engaged. As
we've grown from the firm I joined with
75 people to a firm that now has more
than 5,000 people, we've got to make
sure people seem excited or are excited
about coming to work every day.
>> Have you ever thought of leaving? No.
Never? No. And there's nothing what I
mean, what attracts you to Blackstone?
You're also seen as the heir in waiting.
I've woken up every day intellectually
challenged by what I do,
and I love the people, and I love the
drive and the will to win. How has your
relationship with Steve Schwarzman
changed over the years?
Oh, wow. Um
we you know, when I joined, I was a kid,
right? I was 22 years old in this tiny
little firm. And obviously, as I've
grown up over time, um
you know, the relationship as somebody
just learning the business to somebody
help run the firm is is different. But I
would say there's remarkable continuity.
Steve's just always pushing for the
best. And even at a young age, one of
the great things about Steve and the
firm is this openness to listen at the
table. So, even when I was very young,
once I sort of got my sea legs and I
said, "Oh, I don't like this transaction
for whatever reason," you were heard.
And so,
I I think Steve just appreciates drive,
caring, and entrepreneurial spirit. And
for me, it's one of the great gifts of
really my not only my career, my life to
have been able to work so closely with
him, to be able to learn so much from
somebody who's so wise, who always has
equanimity um in in whatever the
situation. That's been really helpful.
And he's also pushed me. I I never would
have been somebody who would have
thought as big. You know, that's his
thing. He extends the playing field and
makes you think about, can we build this
business to a billion? Why don't we
build it to 10 or 100 billion dollars?
And when you work with and for somebody
like that, it inspires you. John, how do
you, you know, as as the firm grows, how
do you make sure everybody feels like
that?
>> Yeah. So, is it feedback? Is it like
180s, reviews, compensation? Every
Monday we do what we call BXTV. It's not
Bloomberg TV, it's our internal Zoom
call, but we're communicating messages
about, you know, what people are doing,
investing, raising money,
providing legal. We're constantly
calling out people who find interesting
and new ways to do things. And then
we're rewarding and promoting those
people. Because it's interesting, people
often think, you know, how do I get an
organization to head in a certain
direction?
And it's not by putting plaques up on
the wall with mottos.
Who you hire, who you fire, who you
promote.
If you have people who share your
values, who share the drive, and they're
the ones who are succeeding, then the
younger people are going to look around
and say, "Oh, that person who took a
risk, they moved to a new place, they
found this new way to invest capital.
Oh, I want to follow them." And I think
that in many ways is the best way to
model things, and also just the way you
act, you know, the way you conduct
yourself sends a powerful signal to
others. Blackstone's flagship $82
billion private credit fund BCRED made
headlines in March. Bloomberg reported
that around 25 Blackstone senior
employees were putting in roughly $150
million
of their own money to offset record
customer withdrawal requests.
The management [music] move has been
described as old-fashioned
door-knocking. And I wanted to know from
Gray what it was like to go [music] out
and ask colleagues to open their
wallets. John, talk to me about BCRED.
How difficult was it to convince
employees to put money in it? So, in the
case of BCRED, which lends senior loans
to
basically private equity companies, um
we built this to be an $80 billion plus
vehicle. It's done a terrific job, 10
plus percent annual return since
inception 6 years ago. There's been
obviously a lot of noise around private
credit. And one of the things that's
really important to us is that our
investors recognize that we're aligned
with them. So, what we did recently was
put up some capital from the individuals
of the firm because we wanted to show
that alignment. And the key is you're in
the investing business, it's a trust
business. And when there's a lot of
noise and people are saying this is
that, there's nothing more powerful than
sort of putting some money in and say,
"Hey, look, I'm aligned with you. This
is my money. I I believe in what I'm
saying."
And in the fullness of time again,
investors will look back and say, "Hey,
they did a good job." And I think again
and again for us, focusing on that North
Star, which is performance and building
trust with our clients, that's what
really matters. But was it difficult
for, you know, to to convince other
employees to to join in or is it again
just part of the culture of Blackstone?
>> of the culture. I mean, obviously when
you're asking people to make personal
contributions, that's a that's
something, but I do think it's part of
who we are, and I do think people
recognize that being seen as
um caring deeply about your clients and
being aligned matters. I mean, what what
was the most You've You've had difficult
times. Yes. What was your most
difficult?
Uh well, definitely the most difficult
would have been last summer. Uh we had
this horrible shooting uh at the firm.
We lost uh an amazing woman, Wesley La
Patner,
who was uh somebody I'd worked closely
with a long time, uh senior executive in
our real estate business,
incredibly talented, rising star, um
but beyond business,
great mother, daughter, wife, um gave
back philanthropically, and was probably
the best mentor I knew, particularly to
other young women. And I would send so
many her way saying, "Look, can you help
this young woman? She She wants to have
a career investing. She wants to have a
family." And I'd always be like, "Call
Wesley." And
to be in the office one day and to have
um this kind of horrific mass shooting,
and then
also the trauma of a lot of people who
were in the building for hours with high
degree of uncertainty, that was a really
hard thing, and there's no playbook for
that sort of thing. And so, I think the
key learning from that was just the
importance of being sort of who you are,
and um everybody was in pain at that
point, and then having as much
communication.
And then trying to find your footing,
how do you get back to work? We have a
lot of responsibility, but also
something really traumatic has happened.
That was hard finding the balance. That
was definitely the toughest thing. Uh
And I certainly hope I never experience
anything like that again. I remember you
were you it felt that you were quite
close to employees. How did you
do that? How did you learn how to do
that? How did you know that that was the
right thing?
You know, I think for both Stephen and
myself it was just a natural thing to
connect with human beings.
You know, we
we met everybody as we reopened the
building when we had people come back.
We did a bunch of sessions. One of my
colleagues here in London actually said
it was the worst of times but the best
of Blackstone.
Because uh
it really showed a humanity that that
again made me proud in a very very
difficult situation. Even in the worst
situation you've got to still
particularly if you're in a leadership
role, you still have to maintain that
calm. You have to give people a sense
both one, yes, you're in pain like they
are but two, we're going to get to the
other side. Because they want to know
that we're going to get through this and
and we ultimately did. But as I said, it
was an awful thing and
at the end of the day we lost somebody
who's really special. Jon Gray has
become well known for his distinct
online videos. Not in the boardroom but
on runs. I've got a crazy week ahead.
It's Thursday morning. I'm in Riyadh,
Saudi Arabia. We're also going to see I
think some of these geopolitical hot
spots cool down. We keep running
wherever we go. I wanted to know how
this casual approach came about and
whether it's just a bit of fun or a
helpful business tool. Jon, I wanted to
talk to a little bit about your
communications because a lot of people
follow you on LinkedIn. Do you enjoy
communicating directly? First of all,
who are they for? Is it employees or
investors?
So, if I roll the tape back,
Christine Anderson who you know who runs
our corporate affairs, was pushing me
for a number of years. You've got to go
on LinkedIn.
You got to communicate. Our business is
growing. We have a lot of stakeholders.
And I was resistant, but I ultimately
conceded because I I was like, you know
what? We should do this. And I was in
Australia. And I often would send to my
family, not post, but like, "Hey, I'm
here in London. This is what's going
on."
And instead [snorts] I did it for a
broader audience. And we put it on
LinkedIn and it went viral.
So I was like, "Oh, I can do other
cities. This isn't that hard." And what
I found was that people really enjoyed
seeing the travel,
seeing sort of the human side of this,
seeing a little bit of self-deprecating
humor.
You know, when you're doing TV,
it's hard to sort of show who you are at
times. And this felt like a direct way
to communicate, unfiltered.
And yes, we've got a lot of
stakeholders. There are only so many of
them you can see in a given year.
And they can see who you are. And And
going back to my earlier comments,
it is about trust. So if people are
going to
invest with us, knowing who the people
leading the business are, and that they
seem like decent human beings, that's
helpful. And I describe what I produce
as sort of dorky dad vibes.
And And I think
it gives people a sense of sort of who
we are, what we care about, some of the
insights we can give in the world, and
do it in a very informal way.
And that's worked. At some point,
there'll been too many running videos
and it'll be like, "Enough." For now, we
keep running. But you you enjoy it? Is
that you Is it your personality,
actually?
>> It's definitely my personality, which is
um
optimistic and and yeah, a little bit
self-deprecating and um Practically
British.
>> And pra- Yeah, exactly. [laughter]
Not quite as dry on the humor side. And
um when I show up in meetings, so often
people are saying, "I saw that." It
makes for a good conversation starter.
And when we do want to get out a message
on something, we can do it in a direct
way with the large audience. So, it has
a business purpose, as well. And then
you do these holiday videos, which are,
you know, a lot of people's highlights
for the holidays.
>> Yes. Yeah. I can why why do it? The
holiday videos are a little crazy. I
don't know who's inside that costume,
but I love what Mr. Stone is bringing to
this firm.
Surprised
I can dunk, huh?
Well, I've got to go. I've got some
holiday cheer to spread
and some books to sell.
When I got this job 8 years ago, we
realized that we'd grown too large to
have a Christmas party at the firm.
And I was like, "Wow, I'm going to be
like Scrooge. I will have canceled the
Christmas party. So, we need to do
something that is more fun
and make up for this." And we decided to
do this video. And originally, it was
just internal, and it sort of got out
and people thought it was really funny.
And so, again, it was like, "Hey, this
works." And I think again, the element
of this that's helpful is it shows the
humanity of the firm, that we can make
fun of ourselves, that it's not just
tough Wall Street investors. And um now
it's become a thing.
And our clients love it.
>> Tell me a John Gray day. So, is it, you
know, what time do you start?
>> Get up 6-ish in the morning. Um
try to read the newspapers, Bloomberg,
of course.
>> Always.
>> Always. Uh get a sense of what's
happening in the world. Catch up, if I'm
in New York, on the Asia and Europe
emails that have come in overnight.
Um
probably read some stuff that if I
didn't get through the night before
prepping for the day ahead.
Get to the office and chock-a-block
meetings.
Investment committees,
internal meetings, client meetings,
policymakers,
run through the day. If I'm not
traveling, I like to go home for dinner.
And then I do
emails and calls and read documents,
investment committee documents,
uh at night. And then I tend to read a
lot of investment committee memos over
the weekend. So,
it's pretty all-encompassing. It's a
24/7 experience. But again,
you know, for me, using an American
metaphor, I get to play shortstop at
Yankee Stadium, right? I get to be in
this amazing seat thinking about,
ultimately, investing is betting on the
future. And you're thinking about where
are things going? What does it mean for
medicine, for media, for real estate,
for all sorts of things.
And doing it with incredible people.
Rapid fire. Top tip for holding a highly
effective meeting. I think having a
action items when the meeting's over.
Meetings that end with just a lack of
clarity of where you're going, to me,
that's not good. So, what you want is
the meeting's over and the takeaway is
we're going to go do this for this
client or we're going to go do this due
diligence on this company and then we're
going to come back. Action is the thing
that matters. Would you rather lead on
your own or by committee?
On my own, but I but I still think of
some things like investing, I I prefer
the committee. But in terms of final
decisions,
I think one person has to have
responsibility. Top tip for motivating
people.
I think giving people a sense that there
is no limit to what they can achieve,
that their potential is enormous, and
really encouraging people to be
entrepreneurial.
It's not just Steve Jobs in the garage.
You can be an entrepreneur as an
investor, as a fundraiser, frankly, as
an accountant, as a lawyer. You can
think about how can I do things better?
How can I innovate? You want to
encourage people that there's tons of
opportunity wherever they are in the
organization, and they should think like
an entrepreneur. John Gray, thank you so
much for joining us. Francine, it was
great. Thank you.